* [For developers](#for-developers)
    * [General information](#general-information)
    * [Folder structure](#folder-structure)
    * [Additional information for customizations](#additional-information-for-customizations)

## General information
 - A general knowledge in python  and sql is necessary for further development.
 - Some  basic knowledge in web2y is helpful. See [docs](http://web2py.com)
 - The OJS intergration is  in progress.
 - We have included a minified [lens](https://github.com/elifesciences/lens/) viewer. If you want to customize it, either use the [lens git](https://github.com/elifesciences/lens/)  or  [contact us](mailto:dulip.withanage@gmail.com). We will be happy to help you.

## Folder structure
**strictly follows MVC (Model-View-Control) design principle**

 - **controllers** - contains all the functions for  enabling pages.
 - **cron** - automated tasks
 - **databases** - automatically generated by web2py. Do not edit this folder contents
 - **languages** -  language files. Web2py generates automatic entries for any word written in T() Block.  e.g. T('word') in python files or {{=T('word')}} in HTML. Default language is english.
 - **models** - database models for Open monograph press. Web2py uses a  data abstraction layer.
 - **private** - all the files, which contain sensitive information and configuration files
 - **modules** - table mappings of omp and varibales that are globally accessible from the application.
 - **static** - all the static files as such as javascript files and css files.
 - **views** - for each controller (e.g. catalog.py) file, you have to  add a folder  with the same name   (e.g. catalog) and a html file  (index.html) for each function in the controller file.

## Additional information for customizations
- Book view
  - Current book details page views/catalog/book.html  displays xml files in  the lens viewer, if you name the category into  XML. But this can ba changed in private/appconfig.ini